doc/introduction.adoc, before:

[[introduction]]
= Introduction

The badass-runtime plugin allows you to create custom runtime images for non-modular applications.
It also lets you create an application installer with the https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/392[jpackage] tool.

TIP: For modular applications use the https://badass-jlink-plugin.beryx.org/releases/latest/[Badass-JLink plugin].

Creating a custom runtime image for a non-modular application involves the following steps:

- create a classic (pre-Java-9-style) distribution using a task
such as https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/application_plugin.html#sec:application_tasks[installDist] or
https://imperceptiblethoughts.com/shadow/application-plugin/#distributing-the-shadow-jar[installShadowDist]
- use _jlink_ to create a custom JRE containing only the modules required by the application
- merge the pre-Java-9-style distribution into the custom JRE and adjust the start scripts with appropriate
 JVM settings flags such as `--module-path`.

The plugin provides a `runtime` task that automates the above steps
and a `runtimeZip` task that additionally creates a zip archive of the custom runtime image.
In addition, a `suggestModules` task helps you choose the modules to include in your custom JRE.
With the `jpackage` task you can create a platform-specific installer for your application.

WARNING: The plugin requires Java 11 and Gradle 4.8 or newer.
While it might work with some combinations of older Java and Gradle versions, these are not officially supported.

To use the plugin, include the following in your build script:

[source,groovy]
[subs="attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
plugins {
    id 'org.beryx.runtime' version '{project-version}'
}
----

Applying this plugin also implicitly applies the https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/application_plugin.html[Application plugin].

The badass-runtime plugin adds an extension named `runtime`.
The sample below shows a few configuration options.

[source,groovy]
----
runtime {
    options = ['--strip-debug', '--compress', '2', '--no-header-files', '--no-man-pages']
    modules = ['java.naming', 'java.xml']
}
----

The next sections provide detailed information on how to configure the plugin.

NOTE: The source code is available on https://github.com/beryx/badass-runtime-plugin[GitHub] and is licensed under the {blob-root}/LICENSE[Apache-2.0 license].

Commit message:

build with Gradle 7.6; drop compatibility with versions older than 7.0

doc/introduction.adoc, after:

[[introduction]]
= Introduction

The badass-runtime plugin allows you to create custom runtime images for non-modular applications.
It also lets you create an application installer with the https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/392[jpackage] tool.

TIP: For modular applications use the https://badass-jlink-plugin.beryx.org/releases/latest/[Badass-JLink plugin].

Creating a custom runtime image for a non-modular application involves the following steps:

- create a classic (pre-Java-9-style) distribution using a task
such as https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/application_plugin.html#sec:application_tasks[installDist] or
https://imperceptiblethoughts.com/shadow/application-plugin/#distributing-the-shadow-jar[installShadowDist]
- use _jlink_ to create a custom JRE containing only the modules required by the application
- merge the pre-Java-9-style distribution into the custom JRE and adjust the start scripts with appropriate
 JVM settings flags such as `--module-path`.

The plugin provides a `runtime` task that automates the above steps
and a `runtimeZip` task that additionally creates a zip archive of the custom runtime image.
In addition, a `suggestModules` task helps you choose the modules to include in your custom JRE.
With the `jpackage` task you can create a platform-specific installer for your application.

WARNING: The plugin requires Java 11 and Gradle 7.0 or newer.
While it might work with some combinations of older Java and Gradle versions, these are not officially supported.
If you are forced to work with an older Gradle release, you should use https://badass-runtime-plugin.beryx.org/releases/1.12.7/[the version 1.12.7] of this plugin.

To use the plugin, include the following in your build script:

[source,groovy]
[subs="attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
plugins {
    id 'org.beryx.runtime' version '{project-version}'
}
----

Applying this plugin also implicitly applies the https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/application_plugin.html[Application plugin].

The badass-runtime plugin adds an extension named `runtime`.
The sample below shows a few configuration options.

[source,groovy]
----
runtime {
    options = ['--strip-debug', '--compress', '2', '--no-header-files', '--no-man-pages']
    modules = ['java.naming', 'java.xml']
}
----

The next sections provide detailed information on how to configure the plugin.

NOTE: The source code is available on https://github.com/beryx/badass-runtime-plugin[GitHub] and is licensed under the {blob-root}/LICENSE[Apache-2.0 license].
